---
layout: blog
subtitle: Flyway 7.0.0 Beta
permalink: /blog/flyway-7.0.0-beta.html
author: ajay
---

The Flyway Team has been hard at work on Flyway V7. We've spent a lot of time pouring over GitHub issues, working on some of the most wanted feature requests, and thinking hard about how to overcome some long-standing limitations.

## Flyway 7 Beta

After much work, we're proud to announce we are releasing an **early-access beta version** of Flyway V7, which has a slew of big changes and new features.

This blog post serves as the main documentation source for the changes in Flyway V7 beta. As this is a beta version, everything here is liable to change between now and the full release.

The beta version is available through the normal update channels (Maven, Gradle, etc).

We want your feedback! We encourage you to give Flyway V7 Beta a try in your development environments. Let us know of any issues so we can fix them for the final release. Share your feedback on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues), or shout about it on Twitter [@flywaydb](https://twitter.com/FlywayDb).

Read on to learn about the [**new features**](#new-features). See that we've added support for [**Azure Synapse**](#support-for-new-databases). Inform yourself of the [**breaking changes**](#breaking-changes) to ensure you're ready to upgrade.

## New Features

### Cherry Pick Migrations
{% include enterprise.html %}

Specify which migrations to apply on `migrate` or `undo` with the new `-cherryPick` option.

For example:
- Create migrations `V1__create_table1.sql`, `V2__create_table2.sql`, and `R__create_view.sql`
- Run `flyway migrate -cherryPick="1,create_view"`

The schema history table now shows migration `V1` and `create_view` as being successfully applied. However `V2` has been skipped and is marked as 'ignored'. `V2__create_table2.sql` can be cherry picked for deployment at a later time.

This should unblock users in [this issue](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2698) who have encountered this limitation of flyway.

### Mark as Applied
{% include enterprise.html %}

With the new configuration option `skipExecutingMigrations`, you can skip script execution on migrate or undo, only updating the schema history table. This means you can 'pretend' a migration was executed.

This is useful when executing an script against your database manually. For instance, when you apply an out-of-process change like a hotfix. The hotfix script can be turned into a migration and applied with `skipExecutingMigrations=true`. The schema history table will be updated, but the hotfix script won't be run gain.

When combined with `cherryPick`, you can gain a lot more control of how your deployments take place.

### Delete Repeatable Migrations
Flyway can now cope with repeatable migrations that have been deleted. Before, missing entries in the schema history table caused a validation error. In Flyway 7, you can update 'missing' entries to be considered safely 'deleted' by running `flyway repair`.

For example:
- Create repeatable migration `R__create_view.sql`
- Run `flyway migrate`
- Create migration `V1__drop_view.sql`
- Run `flyway migrate`
  - To ensure the view is actually deleted in the database
- Delete file `R__create_view.sql`
- Run `flyway validate`
  - This produces an error as the `R__create_view` is 'missing'
- Run `flyway repair`
- Run `flyway validate`
  - No error, as `R__create_view` is now considered 'deleted' instead of missing

After this sequence of commands, `R__createView.sql` now appears as `deleted` in the schema history table.

### Arbitrary Script Migrations
{% include enterprise.html %}

Plain SQL migrations not flexible enough? Now you can execute common shell scripts as migrations too. We support `.ps1`, `.sh`, `.cmd`, `.bat`, and `.py` files as migrations. This is a somewhat experimental feature that we think will offer you more flexibility to work around some trickier limitations of applying a migrations based approach to database changes.

One example is provided in [this issue](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2428). The user wants to invoke a data import utility as it's quicker than writing many `INSERT` statements. In Flyway V7 you can now write a shell script migration which invokes [SQL* Loader](https://www.oracletutorial.com/oracle-administration/oracle-sqlloader/) (`sqlldr`) to perform the bulk insert as part of a deployment.

For example:
- Run migration `V1__create_table.sql`
- Create a script `V2__bulk_insert.sh`
  - This shell script migration has the following contents: `sqlldr parfile=dept_loader.par`
- Run `migrate`
- `V2__bulk_insert.sh` is executed in order, much like a SQL migration
  - `sqlldr` is invoked, which performs the bulk insert

### Amazon S3 Bucket & Google Cloud Storage Support
We now support support Amazon S3 buckets & Google Cloud Storage as locations.

#### Amazon S3

Locations starting with `s3:` point to a bucket in AWS S3 and are scanned recursively for migrations. They are in the format `s3:<bucket>[/optionalfolder/subfolder]`. Wildcards are not supported.

To use AWS S3, the AWS environment variables `AWS_REGION`, `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` need to be set to the appropriate values for your S3 account.

The community had great interest in this and we are thankful for the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/1961) and the code contributed in this [pull request](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/1961).

#### Google Cloud Storage

{% include enterprise.html %}

Locations starting with `gcs:` point to a bucket in Google Cloud Storage, may only contain SQL migrations, and are scanned recursively. They are in the format `gcs:bucket(/optionalfolder/subfolder)`. To use GCS, the GCS library must be included, and the GCS environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` must be set to the credentials file for the service account that has access to the bucket.


### Supply JDBC properties in Clients

{% include enterprise.html %}

You can now specify any JDBC property from our Maven, Gradle, Command Line clients, and environment variables. Before this was only possible by directly using the Flyway API and manually altering the `DataSource` object.

This is achieved with the `flyway.jdbcProperties.<myproperty>=<value>` configuration option.

One use case for this is to supply an Azure access token as explained in [this documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/connecting-using-azure-active-directory-authentication?view=sql-server-ver15#connecting-using-access-token) as the `accessToken` property cannot be specified in the JDBC URL.

### SQL*Plus Login File

{% include enterprise.html %}

We now support `login.sql` files for SQL*Plus users. Documentation can be found [here](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/server.112/e16604/ch_two.htm#i1133106).

`login.sql` is a file used to execute statements before every script run, and is typically used to configure 
the session in a consistent manner by calling SQL*Plus commands such as `SET FEEDBACK` and `SET DEFINE`.

Flyway will look for this file in all the valid migration locations, and load it if present and [`oracle.sqlplus`](/documentation/commandline/migrate#oracle.sqlplus) is enabled.

### Postgres SCRAM Authentication
We have upgraded the PostgreSQL JDBC driver so that SCRAM authentication is now possible.

Thanks to [Fabian Koehler](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2594) for raising this issue.

### New Callbacks Between Versioned and Repeatable Migrations
There are two new callbacks, `afterVersioned` and `beforeRepeatables`.

[This GitHub issue](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2133) requested a callback to execute between versioned and repeatable migrations. 

One use case for these is to execute SQL once after all versioned migrations have executed, such as that which creates a view, to optimize the repeatable migrations.

## Support for New Databases

### Azure Synapse
We now support Azure Synapse (Formerly Data Warehouse).

- URL format: `jdbc:sqlserver://host:port;databaseName=database`
- [SSL support](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/connecting-with-ssl-encryption?view=sql-server-ver15): Add `;encrypt=true` to the JDBC URL
- Ships with Flyway Command-line
- Maven Central coordinates: `com.microsoft.sqlserver:mssql-jdbc:7.2.0.jre8`
- Supported versions: 4.0
- Default Java class: `com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerDriver`
- Syntax: [See SQL Server](/documentation/database/sqlserver#sql-server-syntax)
- Compatibility: [See SQL Server](/documentation/database/sqlserver#compatibility)
- Authentication: [See SQL Server](/documentation/database/sqlserver#authentication)
- Limitations:
  - [See SQL Server](/documentation/database/sqlserver#limitations)
  - The JTDS driver does not support Azure Synapse

**Example:**

```sql
/* Single line comment */
CREATE TABLE test_user (
  id INT NOT NULL,
  name VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,  -- this is a valid ' comment
  PRIMARY KEY NONCLUSTERED (name) NOT ENFORCED
);
GO

-- Placeholder
INSERT INTO ${tableName} (name) VALUES ('Mr. T');
```

## Breaking Changes

### Java 7 Compatibility is no Longer Guaranteed
We no longer guarantee support Java 7 as we have upgraded to Java 8.

This guarantee only applied to Enterprise customers. If you are concerned this change will affect your ability to use the latest versions of Flyway going forward please contact customer support.

### Database Support Drop Out
Due to their age, we will no longer be supporting the following database versions in Community and Pro editions:

- Derby 10.11
- Postgres 9.4
- Sybase ASE 16
- HSQLDB 2.3


### Breaking Changes

- [Updated the Gradle plugin to depend on 6.1](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2747)
- Non-existent locations in `flyway.locations` will produce errors instead of warnings
- [Use of dots (.) as path separators in `flyway.locations` will be deprecated and produce an error when used](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/982)
- `MigrationType.SPRING_JDBC` and `MigrationType.UNDO_SPRING_JDBC` will be removed
    - Use `MigrationType.JDBC` and `MigrationType.UNDO_JDBC` instead
- [Placeholder names will become case insensitive](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/pull/2808)
- [Flyway command line will no longer load config files from standard input, but instead require a - to be passed to the `configFiles` argument](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2859)
- [Invalid target version should stop execution](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2324)
- [Interleaving Java and SQL callbacks](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2760)
- [Add `filesystem:sql` as a default location](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2805)

## Try it out!

This is a **beta** release which, although very stable, we do not recommend to deploy in production just yet.

You can find a detailed list of issues fixed in the [release notes](/documentation/releaseNotes#7.0.0-beta).

Enjoy!